includes/media.md, before:


## Users of 3D BAG

+ [ESRI Dordrecht](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6781234372499656704/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6781234372499656704%29)
+ [Esri Amersfoort](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6783394542914715648/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6783394542914715648%29)
+ [Amsterdam 3D](https://3d.amsterdam.nl/web/index.html)
+ [Signum](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6782275683839176704?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6782275683839176704%29)
+ [SpotInfo](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6792423684456890368/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6792423684456890368%29)
+ [ROM3D](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rom3d_3dbag-win3d-lod2-activity-6788411703710244864-T7F0)
+ [Old kadastral boundaries in project Virtueel Hoogeveen](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/andy-benjamins-03687339_historische-kadastrale-grenzen-in-3d-voor-activity-6840583942861656064-1wUJ)

## Tutorials
+ [Dynamo](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/maarten-vroegindeweij-652ab418a_bag3d-3dbag-gis2bim-activity-6784220680817790976-RGO2)
+ [3DBAG LoD2.2 als IFC](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/hanslammerts_handigeharry-activity-6786378491345670144-m1BG)
+ [Infraworks video tutorial](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/richarddenier_3d-bag-viewer-activity-6783767736385384448-ZZEF)
+ [3D BAG in Revit](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6787762181770407936?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6787762181770407936%29)
+ [3D BAG in Revit video](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6822857615140241408/)
+ [CityJSON for IFC workflow](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6788225535890735104?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6788225535890735104%29)
+ [IFC/CAD import](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/lammerts-engineering_3d-gebouwdata-als-ifc-voor-3d-cadbim-software-activity-6787836024291774464-pTd7)
+ [Import in AutoCAD](https://youtu.be/iGCdl978L84)
+ [Tutorial on CityJSON -> IFC](https://blueai.nl/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/3D-BAG.pdf)

## Applications
+ [3D printing of 3D BAG](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/city-scale_tudelft-3dbag-activity-6786294253560594432-7opR)
+ [Wind simulation with 3D BAG by RHDV](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-6790525661929897985-8qvr)
+ [Solar analysis with 3D BAG](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/dennis-hulsegge-01a79934_digibase-bag3d-openbim-activity-6790638107390726144-s_HM)
+ [Flood simulation](https://www.tygron.com/en/2021/05/20/hyper-resolution-flooding-of-the-bommelerwaard/)

## In the news
+ [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/thenetherlands/comments/mgcjuf/3d_modellen_voor_alle_10_miljoen_gebouwen_in/)
+ [Tweakers.net](https://tweakers.net/nieuws/180004/een-kaart-met-body-alle-gebouwen-in-nederland-in-3d.html)
+ [Geo-Info](https://3d.bk.tudelft.nl/rypeters/pdfs/21_geoinfo_3dbag.pdf)
+ [BK nieuws](https://www.tudelft.nl/2021/bk/alle-10-miljoen-gebouwen-in-nederland-ontsloten-in-3d)

Commit message:

update release notes and media list

includes/media.md, after:

Below you can find a list of notable articles, posts, tweets and videos about 3D BAG. Please [let us know](../contact.md) if you think something is missing!

## Applications of 3D BAG
+ 3D printing
    + [CityScale](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/city-scale_tudelft-3dbag-activity-6786294253560594432-7opR)
    + [Heinze Havinga](https://twitter.com/HeinzeHavinga/status/1438798509340303364?s=20)
+ [Wind simulation by Frank Van Gool](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-6790525661929897985-8qvr)
+ [Solar analysis by Dennis Hulsegge](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/dennis-hulsegge-01a79934_digibase-bag3d-openbim-activity-6790638107390726144-s_HM)
+ [Flood simulation by Maxim Knepfle](https://www.tygron.com/en/2021/05/20/hyper-resolution-flooding-of-the-bommelerwaard/)
+ [Old Cadastral boundaries in project Virtueel Hoogeveen by Andy Benjamins](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/andy-benjamins-03687339_historische-kadastrale-grenzen-in-3d-voor-activity-6840583942861656064-1wUJ)
+ [Shadow analysis in Revit by Ekko Nap](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6787762181770407936?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6787762181770407936%29)

## Public adoption of 3D BAG in other platforms
+ [Amsterdam 3D](https://3d.amsterdam.nl/web/index.html)
+ [Utrecht 3D](https://3d.utrecht.nl/)
+ ESRI
    - [Dordrecht by Niels van der Vaart](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6781234372499656704/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6781234372499656704%29)
    + [Amersfoort by Maarten Welmers](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6783394542914715648/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6783394542914715648%29)
+ [Signum](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6782275683839176704?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6782275683839176704%29)
+ [SpotInfo](https://www.spotinfo.nl/wp/panden-plus/)
+ [ROM3D](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rom3d_3dbag-win3d-lod2-activity-6788411703710244864-T7F0)

## Tools and tutorials on 3D BAG
+ [GIS2BIM tool for Dynamo by Maarten Vroegindeweij](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/maarten-vroegindeweij-652ab418a_bag3d-3dbag-gis2bim-activity-6784220680817790976-RGO2)
+ [Infraworks video tutorial by Richard de Nier](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/richarddenier_3d-bag-viewer-activity-6783767736385384448-ZZEF)
+ [3D BAG in Revit video by BFAS](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6822857615140241408/)
+ [3D BAG in AutoCAD article + video by RODEMA](https://www.autocad-cursus.info/cad-downloads/3d-bag-data-inlezen-in-autocad)
+ [3D BAG CityJSON to IFC article + video by Hans Lammerts](https://blueai.nl/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/3D-BAG.pdf)


## 3D BAG in the news
+ [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/thenetherlands/comments/mgcjuf/3d_modellen_voor_alle_10_miljoen_gebouwen_in/)
+ [Tweakers.net](https://tweakers.net/nieuws/180004/een-kaart-met-body-alle-gebouwen-in-nederland-in-3d.html)
+ [Geo-Info](https://3d.bk.tudelft.nl/rypeters/pdfs/21_geoinfo_3dbag.pdf)
+ [BK nieuws](https://www.tudelft.nl/2021/bk/alle-10-miljoen-gebouwen-in-nederland-ontsloten-in-3d)
+ [LinkedIn announcement by Jantien Stoter](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jantien-stoter-7721346_3dbag-activity-6782213871764684800-fVR9)
